Added solution for CF-1103D (#6308)
cpinitiative/usaco-guide: solutions/gold/cf-1103D.mdx

</Spoiler>

<Spoiler title="Hint 2">

Since there are at most 11 target primes, represent the set of target primes a judge can eliminate in one game as a bitmask. What's the minimum divisor needed to eliminate a specific subset of target primes from a judge's doubt?

</Spoiler>

<Spoiler title="Hint 3">

With $n$ up to $10^6$, running the DP once per judge is too slow. Two judges are completely interchangeable in the DP if they offer the same set of "maximal achievable masks." How can you collapse $10^6$ judges down to a tiny set?

</Spoiler>

## Explanation

Our first key observation is that the only way that the final $\gcd$ can remain $> 1$ is if some prime $p$ divides every $a_i$. So the only primes that can block us are those dividing $g = \gcd(a_1, \ldots, a_n)$.

This means we can ignore all the other primes: any prime not dividing $g$ already fails to divide some $a_i$, so it cannot contribute to the final $\gcd$.

If $g = 1$ then, the answer is $0$ immediately as no games are needed.

Otherwise, factor $g$, and let $m$ be the number of distinct prime factors of $g$. Let $\text{primes}[0], \ldots, \text{primes}[m-1]$ denote each of the $m$ prime factors.

> Define $\text{pw}[j]$ for judge $i$ as the **full prime power** of $\text{primes}[j]$ in $a_i$:

Reviewer: Make these 1 paragraph?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If $g = 1$ then, the answer is $0$ immediately as no games are needed.
Otherwise, factor $g$, and let $m$ be the number of distinct prime factors of $g$. Let $\text{primes}[0], \ldots, \text{primes}[m-1]$ denote each of the $m$ prime factors.
Define $\text{pw}[j]$ for judge $i$ as the **full prime power** of $\text{primes}[j]$ in $a_i$:
```

$$
\text{pw}[j] = p_j^{v_{p_j}(a_i)}, \quad p_j = \text{primes}[j]
$$

> For example: $a_i = 12 = 2^2 \cdot 3$, $\text{primes}[j] = 2$ → $\text{pw}[j] = 4$.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example: If $a_i = 12 = 2^2 \cdot 3$, then $\text{primes}[j] = 2$ and $\text{pw}[j] = 4$.
```

More flow.

We note that $m \leq 11$, since the product of the first 12 primes exceeds $10^{12}$.

Since $g \mid a_i$ for all $i$, every prime in $\text{primes}$ divides every $a_i$. However, dividing isn't enough to remove a prime in one game, as you can only knock out $\text{primes}[j]$ from judge $i$ if your chosen divisor is at least $\text{pw}[j]$, the full prime power of $\text{primes}[j]$ in $a_i$.

Therefore:
- To clear prime $j$ from judge $i$, you need divisor $d$ with $\text{pw}[j] \mid d$, i.e. $d \geq \text{pw}[j]$.
- To clear a subset $S$ of primes simultaneously, you need $d$ divisible by all $\text{pw}[j]$ for $j \in S$. Since the target primes are distinct, these are coprime, so the minimum such $d$ is $\prod_{j \in S} \text{pw}[j]$.

If this product exceeds $k$, the subset $S$ is impossible for this judge in one game.

First, since $m \leq 11$, represent the subsets of target primes as bitmasks (bit $j$ being toggled = $\text{primes}[j]$ is in the subset).

> For each judge $i$ and bitmask $s$, the minimum divisor to clear subset $s$ in one game is:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
First, since $m \leq 11$, we represent the subsets of target primes as bitmasks (bit $j$ being toggled = $\text{primes}[j]$ is in the subset).
Then, for each judge $i$ and bitmask $s$, the minimum divisor to clear subset $s$ in one game is:
```

$$
\text{prod}[s] = \prod_{j \in s} \text{pw}[j]
$$

If $\text{prod}[s] \leq k$, judge $i$ can clear all primes in $s$ in a single game.

So the problem reduces to choosing a set of judges such that the union of their cleared prime sets equals all $m$ target primes $(\text{full} = (1 \ll m) - 1)$, minimizing $(\text{count}) \times (\text{sum of experience})$.

### Step 2: Efficient Subset-Product Computation

Computing $\text{prod}[s]$ naively for each subset is $O(2^m \cdot m)$ per judge. But we can optimise our code to compute it in $O(2^m)$:

> Let $t$ be $s$ with its lowest set bit (index $j$) cleared. We can compute $\text{prod}[s]$ from $\text{prod}[t]$ by multiplying by $\text{pw}[j]$: $\text{prod}[s] = \text{prod}[t] \times \text{pw}[j]$. Since we iterate $s$ upward from $1$, $t$ (being smaller than $s$) is always already computed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Let $t$ be $s$ with its lowest set bit (index $j$) cleared. We can compute $\text{prod}[s]$ from $\text{prod}[t]$ by multiplying by $\text{pw}[j]$: $\text{prod}[s] = \text{prod}[t] \times \text{pw}[j]$. Since we iterate $s$ upward from $1$, $t$ (being smaller than $s$) is always already computed.

<LanguageSection>

<CPPSection>
```

```cpp
prod[0] = 1;
for (int s = 1; s < full; ++s) {
	int j = __builtin_ctz(s);             // index of lowest set bit
	long long prev = prod[s ^ (s & -s)];  // prod[s without lowest bit]
	prod[s] = (prev > k / pw[j]) ? (k + 1) : prev * pw[j];
}
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

</CPPSection>

</LanguageSection>

```

<Info title="Overflow Guard">

Both `prev` and `pw[j]` can reach $10^{12}$, so their product may overflow `long long`. Instead of computing the product, check `prev > k / pw[j]` first. If the product exceeds $k$, store a sentinel value `k+1`, as any value exceeding k makes no difference.

</Info>

### Step 3: Maximal Achievable Masks (Pruning)

For a given judge, call a subset $s$ **affordable** if $\text{prod}[s] \leq k$. Many affordable subsets are dominated. If a subset $s$ and its strict superset $s' \supset s$ for a given judge are both affordable, there's never any reason to clear just $s$: you could clear $s'$ instead for the same cost, getting strictly more coverage.

> So we only care about **maximal** affordable subsets: those where no affordable strict superset exists.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
So we only care about **maximal** affordable subsets: those where no affordable strict superset exists.

<LanguageSection>

<CPPSection>
```

```cpp
vector<int> opts;
for (int s = 1; s < full; ++s) {
	if (prod[s] > k) continue;  // subset s is unaffordable, skip
	bool maximal = true;
	for (int j = 0; j < m && maximal; ++j)
		// if we can add prime j to s and still afford it, s is dominated
		if (!(s & (1 << j)) && prod[s | (1 << j)] <= k) maximal = false;
	if (maximal) opts.push_back(s);
}
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

</CPPSection>

</LanguageSection>

```

These are the only meaningful choices this judge offers. Note that `opts` can never have too many elements, since no subset in it can contain another - by Sperner's Theorem, at most $\binom{m}{\lfloor m/2 \rfloor} \leq \binom{11}{5} = 462$ elements.
For more info, check out [Sperner's Theorem.](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sperner%27s_theorem)

### The DP

The cost is $c \times \sum e_i$ where $c$ is the number of judges used. Sadly, we can't just track $\min(\sum e_i)$, since we also need to know $c$, as two

> solutions covering the same prime mask with different judge counts have different costs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
solutions covering the same prime mask with different judges have different costs.
```

I think this is what you meant?

> **State:** $dp[c][s]$ = minimum sum of experience using **exactly** $c$ judges covering prime-mask $s$.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**State:** $dp[c][s]$ represents minimum sum of experience using **exactly** $c$ judges covering prime-mask $s$.
```

**Base case:** $dp[0][0] = 0$, everything else $= \infty$.

**Transition:** For each judge with options list `opts`, for each option $T \in \text{opts}$:

$$
dp[c+1][s \mid T] = \min(dp[c+1][s \mid T],\ dp[c][s] + e_i)
$$

**Answer:** $\min_{c=1}^{m}\ c \times dp[c][\text{full}-1]$

Why cap at $c = m$? Any judge that doesn't contribute at least one new prime bit is purely wasteful - both $c$ and $\sum e$ increase for zero coverage gain.

> With $m$ target primes, you never need more than $m$ judges.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Thus, with $m$ target primes, you never need more than $m$ judges.
```

> To prevent the double-use of the same judge, iterate $c$ **downward** from $m-1$ to $0$. Reads come from $dp[c][\cdot]$ and writes go to $dp[c+1][\cdot]$.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To prevent the double-use of the same judge, iterate $c$ **downward** from $m-1$ to $0$. In each transition, we read from $dp[c]$ and write to $dp[c+1]$.
```

Since $c+1 > c$ and we iterate downward, no read ever sees a value written by the current judge's own pass.
This is the standard 0/1 knapsack backward-iteration trick.

> ### Issue 1: Why the Naive DP TLEs and How to Fix It

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### How to Optimize a Naive DP to Prevent TLE
```

> The naive approach runs the DP update once per judge: $O(n \cdot m \cdot 2^m \cdot |\text{opts}|)$.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The naive approach runs the DP update once per judge, with a time complexity of $O(n \cdot m \cdot 2^m \cdot |\text{opts}|)$.
```

With $n = 10^6$, $m = 11$, $2^m = 2048$, $|\text{opts}| \leq 462$:

$$
10^6 \times 11 \times 2048 \times 462 \approx 10^{13}
$$

> Completely infeasible. We need to collapse $10^6$ judges to a tiny set.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With $n = 10^6$, $m = 11$, $2^m = 2048$, and $|\text{opts}| \leq 462$, $10^6 \times 11 \times 2048 \times 462 \approx 10^{13}$, which is completely infeasible. Thus, we aim to optimize the number of judges.
```

> **Key reduction:** Two judges are completely interchangeable in the DP iff they have the same `opts` list, since the DP only cares about which transitions are available (`opts`) and the cost ($e_i$). So among judges with the same opts, only cost distinguishes them. And since we never use more than $m$ judges total, we never need more than $m$ judges of any single type: **so for each unique `opts` type, we keep only the $m$ cheapest experience values.**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Key reduction:** Two judges are completely interchangeable in the DP iff they have the same `opts` list, since the DP only cares about which transitions are available (`opts`) and the cost ($e_i$). So among judges with the same opts, only cost distinguishes them. And since we never use more than $m$ judges total, we never need more than $m$ judges of any single type.  So, for each unique `opts` type, we keep only the $m$ cheapest experience values.
```

This reduction happens in two layers:

**Optimization 1: Group by exponent pattern.** Two judges with identical prime-power vectors ($\text{pw}[0], \ldots, \text{pw}[m-1]$) produce identical `prod[]` tables and identical `opts`, so we encode each judge's exponent vector into a hash (6 bits per exponent, enough since the smallest prime is 2 and $2^{40} > 10^{12}$ means no exponent exceeds 39) and group judges with matching hashes together, keeping only the $m$ cheapest experience values per group in a max-heap.

**Optimization 2: Group by opts vector.** Even across different exponent patterns, two groups can produce the same `opts` list. These groups are interchangeable in the DP.

> Use `opts` itself as the second-level key, and again keep only the $m$ cheapest experience values per type, merging across all exponent groups sharing the same `opts`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

1. **Group by exponent pattern.** Two judges with identical prime-power vectors ($\text{pw}[0], \ldots, \text{pw}[m-1]$) produce identical `prod[]` tables and identical `opts`, so we encode each judge's exponent vector into a hash (6 bits per exponent, enough since the smallest prime is 2 and $2^{40} > 10^{12}$ means no exponent exceeds 39) and group judges with matching hashes together, keeping only the $m$ cheapest experience values per group in a max-heap.
2. **Group by `opts`.** Even across different exponent patterns, two groups can produce the same `opts` list. These groups are interchangeable in the DP.
Use `opts` itself as the second-level key, and again keep only the $m$ cheapest experience values per type, merging across all exponent groups sharing the same `opts`.
```

> **After both optimizations:** At most $\binom{11}{5} = 462$ distinct opt-types exist, each with at most $m = 11$ virtual judges - so at most $462 \times 11 \approx 5082$ judges ever touch the DP.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After both optimizations, at most $\binom{11}{5} = 462$ distinct opt-types exist, each with at most $m = 11$ virtual judges - so at most $462 \times 11 \approx 5082$ judges ever touch the DP.
```

The final DP is:

$$
5082 \times 11 \times 2048 \times |\text{opts}| \approx 5.7 \times 10^8
$$

> Which passes within the time limit.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The final DP is uses approximately $5082 \times 11 \times 2048 \times |\text{opts}| \approx 5.7 \times 10^8
$$ operations, which passes within the time limit.
```

## Implementation

**Time Complexity:** $\mathcal{O}(N \cdot M + 2^M \cdot M^2 \cdot \binom{M}{\lfloor M/2 \rfloor})$, where $M$ is the number of distinct prime factors of $\gcd(a_1, \ldots, a_n)$ (at most 11)

<LanguageSection>
<CPPSection>

```cpp
#include <bits/stdc++.h>
using namespace std;

constexpr long long INF = 1e18;

long long gcd(long long a, long long b) {

> 	if (b == 0) return a;

Reviewer: Braces

Reviewer: ```suggestion
	if (b == 0) { return a; }
```

Reviewer: Done.

	return gcd(b, a % b);
}

// hash function for vector<int> keys in unordered_map
struct vector_int_hash {
	size_t operator()(const vector<int> &v) const {
		size_t h = 0;

> 		for (int x : v) h = h * 1000003 ^ (unsigned)x;

Reviewer: Braces

Reviewer: ```suggestion
		for (int x : v) { h = h * 1000003 ^ (unsigned)x; }
```

Reviewer: Done!

struct pair_hash {
	size_t operator()(pair<uint64_t, int> p) const {
		return hash<uint64_t>{}(p.first) ^ ((size_t)(unsigned)p.second * 2654435761ULL);
	}
};

int main() {
	ios::sync_with_stdio(false);
	cin.tie(nullptr);

	int n;
	long long k;
	cin >> n >> k;

	vector<long long> a(n), e(n);
	for (auto &x : a) { cin >> x; }
	for (auto &x : e) { cin >> x; }

	// only prime factors of gcd(a[]) can ever appear in the final gcd
	long long g = a[0];
	for (int i = 1; i < n; ++i) { g = gcd(g, a[i]); }
	if (g == 1) {
		cout << 0;
		return 0;
	}  // already sorted, no games needed

	// factor g to get the target primes we need to eliminate
	vector<long long> target_primes;
	long long tmp = g;
	for (long long i = 2; i * i <= tmp; ++i) {
		if (tmp % i == 0) {
			target_primes.push_back(i);
			while (tmp % i == 0) { tmp /= i; }
		}
	}
	if (tmp > 1) { target_primes.push_back(tmp); }

	int m = (int)target_primes.size();
	int full_mask = (1 << m) - 1;  // bitmask with all m primes set

	// group judges by identical exponent vectors (same prime-power structure)
	// keep only the m cheapest costs per pattern (others are useless for DP)

> 	struct exp_group {

Reviewer: Move struct outside main

Reviewer: Done.

	opt_groups.reserve(1 << 10);

	vector<long long> subset_prod(1 << m);
	for (auto &[_, grp] : exp_groups) {
		const vector<long long> &pw = grp.prime_powers;

		subset_prod[0] = 1;
		for (int s = 1; s < (1 << m); ++s) {
			int j = __builtin_ctz(s);
			long long prev = subset_prod[s ^ (s & -s)];
			subset_prod[s] = (prev > k / pw[j]) ? (k + 1) : prev * pw[j];
		}

		vector<int> opts;
		for (int s = 1; s < (1 << m); ++s) {
			if (subset_prod[s] > k) continue;
			bool is_maximal = true;
			for (int j = 0; j < m && is_maximal; ++j)
				if (!(s & (1 << j)) && subset_prod[s | (1 << j)] <= k)
					is_maximal = false;
			if (is_maximal) opts.push_back(s);
		}
		if (opts.empty()) continue;

		vector<long long> sorted_exp = grp.cheap_heap;
		sort(sorted_exp.begin(), sorted_exp.end());
		auto &bucket = opt_groups[opts];
		for (long long exp_val : sorted_exp) {
			bucket.push_back(exp_val);
			push_heap(bucket.begin(), bucket.end());
			if ((int)bucket.size() > m) {
				pop_heap(bucket.begin(), bucket.end());
				bucket.pop_back();
			}
		}
	}

	// convert opt_groups into a list of virtual judges for the DP
	// each (opts, exp) behaves like a 0/1 knapsack item

> 	struct virtual_judge {

Reviewer: Put outside main

Reviewer: Done.

---
id: cf-1103D
source: CF

> title: Cardbluff

Reviewer 2: Isn't the problem name "Professional Layer"?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: Professional Layer
```

Yep.

author: Abhinav Singh
---

[Official Analysis (C++)](https://codeforces.com/blog/entry/64722)

<Spoiler title="Hint 1">

> The final gcd can only be affected by primes that currently divide $\gcd(a_1, \ldots, a_n)$ — call these the **target primes**. How many such primes can there be?

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The final GCD can only be affected by primes that currently divide $\gcd(a_1, \ldots, a_n)$ — call these the **target primes**. How many such primes can there be?
```

abbreviations are generally capitalized

</Spoiler>

<Spoiler title="Hint 2">

Since there are at most 11 target primes, represent the set of target primes a judge can eliminate in one game as a bitmask. What's the minimum divisor needed to eliminate a specific subset of target primes from a judge's doubt?

</Spoiler>

<Spoiler title="Hint 3">

> With $n$ up to $10^6$, running the DP once per judge is too slow. Two judges are completely interchangeable in the DP if they offer the same set of "maximal achievable masks." How can you collapse $10^6$ judges down to a tiny set?

Reviewer 3: "running the DP" 

imo, either skip the mention of DP, or mention DP as a hint

i think u can just remove mention of dp from the hint since idt it's necessary?

</Spoiler>

## Explanation

> Our first key observation is that the only way that the final $\gcd$ can remain $> 1$ is if some prime $p$ divides every $a_i$. So the only primes that can block us are those dividing $g = \gcd(a_1, \ldots, a_n)$.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Our first key observation is that the only way that the final GCD can remain $> 1$ is if some prime $p$ divides every $a_i$. So the only primes that can block us are those dividing $g = \gcd(a_1, \ldots, a_n)$.
```

imo if ur not referring to GCD in a math expression, just say "GCD" instead of $\gcd$

Since $g \mid a_i$ for all $i$, every prime in $\text{primes}$ divides every $a_i$. However, dividing isn't enough to remove a prime in one game, as you can only knock out $\text{primes}[j]$ from judge $i$ if your chosen divisor is at least $\text{pw}[j]$, the full prime power of $\text{primes}[j]$ in $a_i$.

Therefore:
- To clear prime $j$ from judge $i$, you need divisor $d$ with $\text{pw}[j] \mid d$, i.e. $d \geq \text{pw}[j]$.
- To clear a subset $S$ of primes simultaneously, you need $d$ divisible by all $\text{pw}[j]$ for $j \in S$. Since the target primes are distinct, these are coprime, so the minimum such $d$ is $\prod_{j \in S} \text{pw}[j]$.

If this product exceeds $k$, the subset $S$ is impossible for this judge in one game.

First, since $m \leq 11$, we represent the subsets of target primes as bitmasks (bit $j$ being toggled = $\text{primes}[j]$ is in the subset).
Then, for each judge $i$ and bitmask $s$, the minimum divisor to clear subset $s$ in one game is:

$$
\text{prod}[s] = \prod_{j \in s} \text{pw}[j]
$$

If $\text{prod}[s] \leq k$, judge $i$ can clear all primes in $s$ in a single game.

> So the problem reduces to choosing a set of judges such that the union of their cleared prime sets equals all $m$ target primes $(\text{full} = (1 \ll m) - 1)$, minimizing $(\text{count}) \times (\text{sum of experience})$.

Reviewer 3: this is a lot of lingo 

the core idea is that like:
- hey prime factorize gcd
- for each prime factor it only makes sense to eliminate it from one element, so we can see for a given judge if it's possible to clear some set of prime factors from gcd

right? i think you can explain this in a more concise way with less lingo

Author: kinda i mean but it's like after we prime factorise the gcd we gotta remove it from the judges, and if we wanna remove it from one judge we cant js divide it by that prime we gonna have to remove the whole power of that prime from the judge, and we can remove multiple of these factors as long as the product of their "true powers" in that judge is less than k

This reduction happens in two layers:

1. **Group by exponent pattern.** Two judges with identical prime-power vectors ($\text{pw}[0], \ldots, \text{pw}[m-1]$) produce identical `prod[]` tables and identical `opts`, so we encode each judge's exponent vector into a hash (6 bits per exponent, enough since the smallest prime is 2 and $2^{40} > 10^{12}$ means no exponent exceeds 39) and group judges with matching hashes together, keeping only the $m$ cheapest experience values per group in a max-heap.
2. **Group by opts.** Even across different exponent patterns, two groups can produce the same `opts` list. These groups are interchangeable in the DP.
Use `opts` itself as the second-level key, and again keep only the $m$ cheapest experience values per type, merging across all exponent groups sharing the same `opts`.

After both optimizations, at most $\binom{11}{5} = 462$ distinct opt-types exist, each with at most $m = 11$ virtual judges - so at most $462 \times 11 \approx 5082$ judges ever touch the DP.

> The final DP is uses approximately $5082 \times 11 \times 2048 \times |\text{opts}| \approx 5.7 \times 10^8$ operations, which passes within the time limit.

Reviewer 3: a bit confused reading this: 
- `opts` is just the list of transitions possible right? why would we use the same transition more than once...?
- why can't we just, for each maximal affordable subset, store the cheapest experience value for it, and just directly knapsack dp that? 
- is the number of possible exponent patterns bounded? i'm mentally kinda slow rn but i don't see why grouping by exponent powers is super useful

Author: 1) again opts is a list of ALL possible maximal transitions a judge can do - imagine two judges with opts = [{0,1}]. then we can't clear both 0 and 1 with 1 judge right since thats not in opts. so we can choose to clear one prime from each judge. i kinda mentioned this i believe where we keep m options per opts since what if all the opts are same and we gotta clear all m factors of the gcd?

2) opts represents options for each judge the judge with the cheapest experience value would have the cheapest opts for MULTIPLE opts then which isnt allowed since we can only clear one bitmask in opts as the judge only plays once. once again, opts is simply which all primes that judge can clear

3)  uh not that i know of, im pretty sure it will work even without that optimisation, but it keeps code cleaner instead of re computing the pw[] for each judge in the next step where we group by opts

---
id: cf-1103D
source: CF
title: Cardbluff
author: Abhinav Singh
---

> [Official Analysis(C++)](https://codeforces.com/blog/entry/64722)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Official Analysis (C++)](https://codeforces.com/blog/entry/64722)
```

<Spoiler title="Hint 1">

The final gcd can only be affected by primes that currently divide $\gcd(a_1, \ldots, a_n)$. How many such primes can there be?

</Spoiler>

<Spoiler title="Hint 2">

> Since there are at most 11 target primes, represent the set of primes a judge can "clear" in one game as a bitmask. What's the minimum divisor needed to clear a specific subset of primes from a judge's value?

Reviewer: Define and use the word target prime in hint 1

Reviewer: What do you mean by clear?

</Spoiler>

<Spoiler title="Hint 3">

The cost function is $x \cdot y$ (count × sum), so you need to track both the number of judges used and the total experience. Think about why a 1D DP over masks isn't enough, and what two-dimensional state you need.

</Spoiler>

<Spoiler title="Hint 4">

With $n$ up to $10^6$, running the DP once per judge is too slow. Two judges are completely interchangeable in the DP if they offer the same set of "maximal achievable masks." How can you collapse $10^6$ judges down to a tiny set?

> </Spoiler>

Reviewer 3: hints are good, i'd replace all the air quotes (e.g. "clearing") with more precise terms tho (also terms like "judge's value" may be better replaced by the problem's term, which is "judge's doubt" i think?

also i think hint 3 can lowk be removed, but that's just my opinion

Author: bet

Reviewer: lowk hint 3 is important and will get people unstuck, and it's not too big of a jump.  so resolving this converation for decluttering -- if anyone else wants to weigh in feel free to unresolve

## Explanation

Our first key observation is that the only way that the final $\gcd$ can remain $> 1$ is if some prime $p$ divides every $a_i$. So the only primes that can block us are those dividing $g = \gcd(a_1, \ldots, a_n)$.

> **This means we can ignore all the other primes.** Any prime not dividing $g$ already fails to divide some $a_i$, so it can never contribute to the final $\gcd$ no matter what we do.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**This means we can ignore all the other primes.** Any prime not dividing $g$ already fails to divide some $a_i$, so it cannot contribute to the final $\gcd$.
```

Cut fluff

> If $g = 1$ already, output $0$ immediately, since no games needed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If $g = 1$ then, the answer is $0$ immediately as no games are needed.
```

Otherwise, factor $g$, and let $m$ be the number of distinct prime factors of $g$. Let $\text{primes}[0], \ldots, \text{primes}[m-1]$ denote each of the $m$ prime factors.

> We note that $m \leq 11$, since the product of the first 12 primes exceeds $10^{12}$:

Reviewer: It’d help to move this statement after the pw properties.

Reviewer: Done.

$$

> 2 \cdot 3 \cdot 5 \cdot 7 \cdot 11 \cdot 13 \cdot 17 \cdot 19 \cdot 23 \cdot 29 \cdot 31 \cdot 37 > 10^{12}

Reviewer: Redundant line—change previous line end to period

Reviewer: Done

$$

> Since $g \mid a_i$ for all $i$, every prime in $\text{primes}$ divides every $a_i$. However, "divides" and "can remove in one game" are different things.

Reviewer: Make second sentence explicit—I.e. you can only remove if you’re the maximum prime power.

The section before step 1 can also be tightened as it’s kind of obvious.

Reviewer: Done.

Define $\text{pw}[j]$ for judge $i$ as the **full prime power** of $\text{primes}[j]$ in $a_i$:

$$
\text{pw}[j] = p_j^{v_{p_j}(a_i)}, \quad p_j = \text{primes}[j]
$$

For example: $a_i = 12 = 2^2 \cdot 3$, $\text{primes}[j] = 2$ → $\text{pw}[j] = 4$.

Therefore:
- To clear prime $j$ from judge $i$, you need divisor $d$ with $\text{pw}[j] \mid d$, i.e. $d \geq \text{pw}[j]$.
- To clear a subset $S$ of primes simultaneously, you need $d$ divisible by all $\text{pw}[j]$ for $j \in S$. Since the target primes are distinct, these are coprime, so the minimum such $d$ is $\prod_{j \in S} \text{pw}[j]$.

If this product exceeds $k$, the subset $S$ is impossible for this judge in one game.

> ### Step 1: Reformulating the Problem Using Bitmasks

Reviewer: Get rid of heading imho—you can say “first, …”

Reviewer: The headings actually work well here after the wording changes.  So resolving

Since $m \leq 11$, represent subsets of target primes as bitmasks (bit $j$ being toggled = $\text{primes}[j]$ is in the subset).

For each judge $i$ and bitmask $s$, the minimum divisor to clear subset $s$ in one game is:

$$
\text{prod}[s] = \prod_{j \in s} \text{pw}[j]
$$

If $\text{prod}[s] \leq k$, judge $i$ can clear all primes in $s$ in a single game.

**So the problem reduces to choosing a set of judges such that the union of their cleared prime sets equals all $m$ target primes

> $(\text{full} = (1 \ll m) - 1)$, minimizing $(\text{count}) \times (\text{sum of experience})$. This is the key simplification.**

Reviewer: Strip out bold and the last sentence

Reviewer: Done.

### Step 2: Efficient Subset-Product Computation

Computing $\text{prod}[s]$ naively for each subset is $O(2^m \cdot m)$ per judge. But we can optimise our code to compute it in $O(2^m)$:

> For each $s$, let $j$ be the index of the lowest set bit, then

Reviewer: Let $t$ be $s$ with it’s lowest bit representing  $j$ cleared.  We can compute $prod[s]$ from $prod[t]$ by multiplying by $pw[j]$.

(You can reword this whole section like this… obv I admit norz so rewrite yourself.

Reviewer: Done.

$\text{prod}[s] = \text{prod}[s \text{ with bit } j \text{ cleared}] \times \text{pw}[j]$.
Since we iterate $s$ upward from $1$, the smaller subset is always already computed.

> ```cpp

Reviewer 3: languagesection

Reviewer: This still applies.

Reviewer: Reso;ved now by me

prod[0] = 1;
for (int s = 1; s < full; ++s) {
	int j = __builtin_ctz(s);      // index of lowest set bit

> 	ll prev = prod[s ^ (s & -s)];  // prod[s without lowest bit]

Reviewer: Write long long out, not ll

Reviewer: Done.

	prod[s] = (prev > k / pw[j]) ? (k + 1) : prev * pw[j];
}
```

**Overflow guard:** Both `prev` and `pw[j]` can reach $10^{12}$, so their product may overflow `long long`. Instead of computing the product, check `prev > k / pw[j]` first.

> If the product exceeds $k$, store a sentinel value `k+1`.

Reviewer 3: a `<Info>` component is more suitable for this

Reviewer: Resolving this to declutter as Info is used now

> If the product exceeds $k$, store a sentinel value `k+1`.

Reviewer: “, as any value exceeding k makes no difference.”

Reviewer: Done.

> ### Step 3: Maximal Achievable Masks (Pruning)

Reviewer 3: 1. what does an affordable subset mean? you should define this (seeing the code it means $\leq K$, so either state that outright or use a more specific term
2. this part feels slightly disjointed from the rest? ie why are we precomputing this

Author: 1) in the question its mentioned that the only way we can choose a divisor is under the condition that our chosen divisor <= k, so our chosen primes must also be <=k for each judge, ie affordable but i'll just replace affordable with that.

2) uh we mention it both the previous step and use it in the next one so i rlly dont know how to make it more bridged iykwim so if u got an idea js hmu

Reviewer: > 2\. uh we mention it both the previous step and use it in the next one so i rlly dont know how to make it more bridged iykwim so if u got an idea js hmu

@4nav regarding @eysbutno's comment above, I think mentioning the fact that there are too many affordable subsets for a judge would work, tell readers that we must elimniate redundant options and then follow with this

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Step 3: Maximal Achievable Masks (Pruning)

There are at most $2^11=2048$ possible sets $s$, and we aim to optimize that number to make our processing of judges faster.  We note that there are many sets $s$ that are not neccessary to result in an optimal solution.
```

> For a given judge, many affordable subsets are dominated. If subset $s$ is affordable and some strict superset $s' \supset s$ is also affordable,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If subset a $s$ and it’s strict superset $s' \supset s$ for a given judge are both affordable,
```

Reviewer: The rewritten version works.

there's never any reason to clear just $s$: you could clear $s'$ instead for the same cost (same game, same judge, same experience $e_i$), getting strictly more coverage.

So we only care about **maximal** affordable subsets: those where no affordable strict superset exists.

> ```cpp

Reviewer 3: language section

Reviewer: This still applies.

Reviewer: Done

vector<int> opts;
for (int s = 1; s < full; ++s) {
	if (prod[s] > k) continue;  // subset s is unaffordable, skip
	bool maximal = true;
	for (int j = 0; j < m && maximal; ++j)
		// if we can add prime j to s and still afford it, s is dominated
		if (!(s & (1 << j)) && prod[s | (1 << j)] <= k) maximal = false;
	if (maximal) opts.push_back(s);
}
```

> These are the only meaningful choices this judge offers the DP. Note that `opts` can never have too many elements, since no subset in it can contain another.

Reviewer: Get rid of “offers the DP”->offers

Also give an explicit upper bound on amount of sets

Reviewer: Done.

### The DP

The cost is $c \times \sum e_i$ where $c$ is the number of judges used. Sadly, we can't just track $\min(\sum e_i)$, since we also need to know $c$, as two
solutions covering the same prime mask with different judge counts have different costs.

**State:** $dp[c][s]$ = minimum sum of experience using **exactly** $c$ judges covering prime-mask $s$.

**Base case:** $dp[0][0] = 0$, everything else $= \infty$.

**Transition:** For each judge with options list `opts`, for each option $T \in \text{opts}$:

$$
dp[c+1][s \mid T] = \min(dp[c+1][s \mid T],\ dp[c][s] + e_i)
$$

**Answer:** $\min_{c=1}^{m}\ c \cdot dp[c][\text{full}-1]$

Why cap at $c = m$? Any judge that doesn't contribute at least one new prime bit is purely wasteful - both $c$ and $\sum e$ increase for zero coverage gain.
With $m$ target primes, you never need more than $m$ judges.

**Preventing double-use of the same judge:** Iterate $c$ **downward** from $m-1$ to $0$. Reads come from $dp[c][\cdot]$ and writes go to $dp[c+1][\cdot]$.
Since $c+1 > c$ and we iterate downward, no read ever sees a value written by the current judge's own pass.

> This is the standard 0/1 knapsack backward-iteration trick.

Reviewer: It’s standard everyone explains it for backpacking so no need here (link to module?)

Author: iirc they dont show the 1d optimization in the module

Reviewer: Oh, wow, really!

Then I think this works.  2 things here:

1. Get rid of bolded colon, use "To prevent the double-use...,"
2. cdot notation is fancy and all but not all people know it.  If there's no other edi in Gold using it, then we can rid it.

Reviewer: Added a suggestion resolving item 2.

Reviewer: Done.

### Issue 1: Why the Naive DP TLEs and How to Fix It

The naive approach runs the DP update once per judge: $O(n \cdot m \cdot 2^m \cdot |\text{opts}|)$.
With $n = 10^6$, $m = 11$, $2^m = 2048$, $|\text{opts}| \leq 462$:

$$
10^6 \times 11 \times 2048 \times 462 \approx 10^{13}
$$

Completely infeasible. We need to collapse $10^6$ judges to a tiny set.

**Key reduction:** Two judges are completely interchangeable in the DP iff they have the same `opts` list. This is because the DP only cares about 2 things:
which transitions are available (`opts`) and the cost ($e_i$) matter. Therefore, among judges with the same opts, the only distinguishing feature is their cost.
And since we never use more than $m$ judges total, we never need more than $m$ judges of any single type. So for each unique `opts` type, we keep only the $m$ cheapest experience values.

This reduction happens in two layers:

> **Optimization 1: Group by exponent pattern.** Two judges with identical prime-power vectors ($\text{pw}[0], \ldots, \text{pw}[m-1]$) produce identical `prod[]` tables and identical `opts`.

Reviewer: Turn all the lists in the explanation into sentences and shorten them.  E.g. firstly, note that… thus, we can…

Reviewer: I rewrote this myself to use an actual list, since firstly etc. is not really natural here.

We encode each judge's exponent vector into a unique hash value (6 bits per exponent × up to 11 primes), allowing judges with identical exponent patterns to be grouped together efficiently.
Per group, maintain a max-heap of size $\leq m$, keeping only the $m$ cheapest experience values.

6 bits per exponent is enough: the smallest prime is 2, and $2^{40} > 10^{12}$, so no exponent exceeds 39.

**Optimization 2: Group by opts vector.** Even across different exponent patterns, two groups can produce the same `opts` list. These groups are interchangeable in the DP.
Use `opts` itself as the second-level key, and again keep only the $m$ cheapest experience values per type, merging across all exponent groups sharing the same `opts`.

**After both optimizaitons:** At most $\binom{11}{5} = 462$ distinct opt-types exist, each with at most $m = 11$ virtual judges - so at most $462 \times 11 \approx 5082$ judges ever touch the DP.
The final DP is:

$$
5082 \times 11 \times 2048 \times |\text{opts}| \approx 5.7 \times 10^8
$$

Which passes within the time limit.

## Implementation

> **Time Complexity:** $\mathcal{O}(N \cdot M + 2^M \cdot M^2 \cdot \binom{M}{\lfloor M/2 \rfloor})$ where $M \leq 11$

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
**Time Complexity:** $\mathcal{O}(N \cdot M + 2^M \cdot M^2 \cdot \binom{M}{\lfloor M/2 \rfloor})$, where $M$ is the number of prime factors to consider.
```

or smth that's more descriptive

Reviewer: Resolving this to declutter as a description has been added.

<LanguageSection>
<CPPSection>

```cpp
#include <bits/stdc++.h>
using namespace std;

> const long long INF = 1e18;

Reviewer: ```suggestion
constexpr long long INF = 1e18;
```

USaco guide standard syntax

> long long gcd(long long a, long long b) { return b ? gcd(b, a % b) : a; }

Reviewer: Explicit if’s?  Ternary is kinda bad

// hash function for vector<int> keys in unordered_map
struct vector_int_hash {
	size_t operator()(const vector<int> &v) const {
		size_t h = 0;
		for (int x : v) h = h * 1000003 ^ (unsigned)x;
		return h;
	}
};

int main() {
	ios::sync_with_stdio(false);
	cin.tie(nullptr);

	int n;
	long long k;
	cin >> n >> k;

	vector<long long> a(n), e(n);

> 	for (auto &x : a) cin >> x;

Reviewer: Braces.  But bravo use of for!

	for (auto &x : e) cin >> x;

	// only prime factors of gcd(a[]) can ever appear in the final gcd
	long long g = a[0];

> 	for (int i = 1; i < n; ++i) g = gcd(g, a[i]);

Reviewer: Braces — same below

	if (g == 1) {
		cout << 0;
		return 0;
	}  // already sorted, no games needed

	// factor g to get the target primes we need to eliminate
	vector<long long> target_primes;
	long long tmp = g;
	for (long long i = 2; i * i <= tmp; ++i) {
		if (tmp % i == 0) {
			target_primes.push_back(i);
			while (tmp % i == 0) tmp /= i;
		}
	}
	if (tmp > 1) target_primes.push_back(tmp);

	int m =
	    (int)

> 	        target_primes.size();  // at most 11 since product of first 12 primes > 1e12

Reviewer: Comment here is kinda unnecessary also funky formatting

Author: prettier does that will fix

Reviewer: Done.

	int full_mask = (1 << m) - 1;  // bitmask with all m primes set

	// hash function for (uint64_t, int) pairs used as exponent hashes

> 	struct pair_hash {

Reviewer: Put structs outside main

		size_t operator()(pair<uint64_t, int> p) const {
			return hash<uint64_t>{}(p.first) ^
			       ((size_t)(unsigned)p.second * 2654435761ULL);
		}
	};

	// group judges by identical exponent vectors (same prime-power structure)
	// keep only the m cheapest costs per pattern (others are useless for DP)
	struct exp_group {
		vector<long long>
		    prime_powers;  // pw[j] = full power of target_primes[j] in a[i]
		vector<long long>
		    cheap_heap;  // max-heap of the m cheapest experience values seen
	};

> 	// optimization 1: group judges by their exponent hash

Reviewer: From this line below comments are really dense—no need to repeat explanation.

Reviewer: Resolved.
